# First Post And How I Hate Web Development

01.08.2022

Even though there are a lot of things I still want to optimize (as always) I think I've reached the core functionality of this blog. At least there's an index which depends on a JSON file I have to update with each post even tho I was initially planning on a directory listing dependent solution. Apparently, vanilla js doesn't have that ability. I thought of actually installing node but I really don't want to get my hands on GitHub Actions right now. I have an oral exam next week and I've spent more than plenty of time on that. This is exactly one of the reasons I hate web development. First of all, I'm not an ignorent gatekeeper who thinks frontend web development isn't real development or anything. I just personally despise it. As a person with ADHD, having to use thousands of different frameworks, technologies, different calls for accessing the content which is basically on the same host as the website and finding resources for all of these is my head canon of a programmers hell. But this isn't even the worst thing about web development.

## Web styling and CSS in particular SUCK and yes I am extremely biased about it just because I can't bother learning it correctly.

There, I said it, and I meant it. I've tried making a simple website many times during my career, for my own personal projects, for friends and family, for school. I tried it as a C# developer, I tried it as a Swift developer, I tried it as a Java developer and I hated it each and every time. I for some reason can't get the size and placement of objects right. I've read several guides on different box modes, different size units and what a viewport is supposed to be and I'm still as clueless as the day I began. Alone the fact that there are different size units *(it might make sense but that's not the point)* is just weird and feels wrong. I'm going to keep my constraints and I don't need your `em` or `px` or `pt` or `vw` or `%` so thanks.

Take this site for example. The description in the header has a bigger font in post view compared to the index view. What causes this behaviour? I don't know. Here are the relevant style snippets:

```css
body {
  background-color: #EFE3D8;
  font-family: "Computer Modern Serif", serif;
  font-size: 100%;
}
```

```css
#header {
  text-align: center;
  margin-top: 50px;
  margin-bottom: 50px;
}
```

The HTML correspondant of that CSS block:

```html
<div id="header">
      <h1 id="title">cameloper's blog</h1>
      <p id="desc">...</p>
      <a href="index.html">index</a>
    </div>
```

Other than these, there's only a single line that *might* affect the size of my header:

```css
#content {
  width: 70%;
  ...
```

This block sets the width of `content` (the div in which this article resides) to 70% of `body`, which covers the whole screen. I'm going to try debugging it with firefox but the fact remains that CSS styling sucks.

